mind your decisions
i'm preshtalwalker suppose x squared is
equal to 17x plus y
and y squared is equal to x plus 17y
if x is not equal to y what is the value
of the square root
of x squared plus y squared plus one
equal to
i thank uzla from india for the
suggestion
a similar problem was asked to students
who were approximately 15 years old
and only six percent answered correctly
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
you might be tempted to solve for x and
y directly
but instead of doing that we will use a
standard trick of manipulating these two
equations first we'll subtract the
second equation
from the first equation the left hand
side
is x squared minus y squared and the
right hand side is
equal to 16x minus 16y
we can factor the left-hand side into
the quantity
x plus y multiplied by the quantity x
minus y
we can factor 16 on the right hand side
to get 16
multiplied by x minus y
now since x is not equal to y x minus y
is not equal to zero therefore
in this equation we can divide both
sides by
x minus y they'll cancel out
and we get x plus y is equal to 16.
we will then go back to our original two
equations
and this time we'll add the two
equations together
we get x squared plus y squared is equal
to 18x
plus 18y this means x squared plus y
squared is equal to 18
multiplied by the quantity x plus y
but we already know that x plus y is
equal to 16
so we can substitute that in we then
have 18 is equal to 17 plus 1
and 16 is equal to seventeen minus one
we thus get a difference of squares x
squared plus y squared
is equal to seventeen squared minus one
squared
one squared is equal to one of course
this is the case if x is not equal to y
from here we add 1 to both sides of the
equation
so x squared plus y squared plus 1 is
equal to 17 squared
we then want the square root of this and
this will be equal to 17
and that's our answer thanks for making
us one of the best communities on
youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
[Music]